Hey YouTube. Hey Brian.
Hey.
How's it going out there?
Well here, I'm still getting over that cold, so apologies ahead of time for any coughs during the show.
You sound, I think you sound pretty good. I think you're ready.
I see that you've come wielding a staff of mighty power.
Yeah, I was cleaning my office and I found the Python staff, so I'm like, I'm bringing this out for the show.
Yeah, that was when we used to go to conferences.
You remember that?
Where like people, they'd all get together.
I think they might be making a comeback.
- I think so.
I think I might be attending some conferences in the future.
- Awesome.
So am I, I'm looking forward to it.
Before we get to our topics,
also want to say thank you to a new sponsor this week,
or not totally new, but new for recent times,
Compiler, the podcast from Red Hat.
So awesome to have the support from Red Hat.
We're going to be telling you more about them later.
But Brian, did you have some comments
about conferences actually you wanted to share?
- I do, but did we do the welcome thing already or do we?
- Oh no, we haven't.
We're all scrambled out today.
Let's just mix it up.
Let's make it different.
This is episode 308, recorded November 1st, 2022.
I'm Akon Kennedy.
- And I'm Brian Okken.
Yeah.
- Let's do it.
- I did want to talk about PyCon.
Yeah, so PyCon is coming up.
So when is it?
It's, I wrote this down even so I could remember.
It's April 19th through the 23rd.
But we bring up PyCon US
because the site just launched recently.
So pretty excited about that.
Linking to a blog post about the site launch
and the call for proposals.
So again, it's gonna be,
let's just hop over to the big one.
It's kind of a cool look to it now.
It's an homage to some of the old ones.
Because there's the 20th anniversary special.
So it's some of the old pictures.
>> Oh, I see.
So it's a bunch of tiles.
And the different tiles are actually
like the hero image or whatever from that year.
>> Or bits of it or something.
>> Yeah.
Yeah.
>> It looks cool.
So PyCon US is going to be April 20th, April 19th is 23rd.
Well, that's when the talks are, it's longer.
So there's, you know, there's tutorials ahead of time
and then there's like hack days
or whatever they call those afterwards.
So if you can stay longer, awesome.
But the talk part is the 19th through the 23rd.
Salt Lake City, the site looks great.
The call for proposals is up.
And that's really kind of what I wanted to highlight
is so people start thinking about your talks.
And of course, yeah, we've got some more information
about talks coming up later in the show,
but the deadlines, what are the deadlines?
So we've got the CFP just opened, just opened the 18th,
and then it's through December 9th.
So, but don't wait until December, get those in early.
So anyway.
- Yeah, excellent.
- I think I'm gonna submit some
because I kind of think I want to go to PyCon this year.
I didn't go last year.
What do you, have you thought about it yet, Michael?
- Yeah, I've definitely thought about it.
I'm very much considering going.
You know, for me, it's like,
is Talk Python going to get a booth
and have like a bunch of presence there?
In which case, going to the conference means
hanging out at the booth for three days,
which is kind of awesome,
but also it's like not exactly a conference.
Or maybe I'll go low key and submit a talk
and then just like cruise around the halls.
I haven't decided, right?
Could do a bunch of podcast recording live there, right?
So there's trade-offs to both, obviously.
So I gotta think about what I might wanna do.
- Yeah, I think I'm gonna submit some talks,
but one of the things I wanted to bring up
with submitting talks is to not,
to do it 'cause it's a good experience to submit a talk.
Even if you don't get the talk,
it's the process of going through that submittal process.
I think it's a growth experience,
even if it gets rejected.
And don't feel bad because tons of people submit talks
and they can't accept all of them, obviously.
So yeah.
- Yeah.
- Anyway, cool.
- Cool, well, yeah, that'd be exciting.
I actually wanna do a bit of bookkeeping before we move on.
- Oh yeah, that's a good idea.
- For people who typically attend our live stream recording,
which we really appreciate that, that's awesome.
We see a bunch of familiar faces in the chat
already out here and we do that live on YouTube
and then we polish it up and send it out to the world
over the audio channels.
So I think you can get a lot out of the video version.
That said, we're moving the video version, right?
- We are, and it's my fault.
So I've got a periodic meeting that happens in my day job
And it happens at noon on Tuesdays.
And that's when we usually used to record.
So we're just shifting it a little bit.
So we're gonna do 11 a.m. on Tuesdays.
- Exactly.
That's just an hour earlier on Tuesdays.
So I wanna encourage people to go to
pythonbytes.fm/youtube
and it'll take you over to our channel.
If you subscribe and get notified,
you'll just get a pop-up when we're streaming live.
And if you've got time, you can drop in.
You don't have to plan too much about it.
So anyway, encourage people to be part
of the YouTube experience here,
'cause we put a lot of stuff on the screen
and it makes it even a little bit cooler, I think.
- And while we're bookkeeping, and it's 11,
if you can make it 11 a.m. on Tuesdays,
maybe you wanna be on the show.
So reach out if you'd like to be a guest host.
We still do those.
- Yeah, exactly.
All right, I wonder if I got anything to talk about.
Let's see, how about Any.io?
- I think you've talked about that before.
- Have I covered Any.io before?
>> I mean, yeah, but go ahead.
Let's talk about it again.
>> Let's talk about it again. I believe that what we did was I
briefly touched on NEI when I was talking about asynchro.
I think that's how you spell it,
from Sebastian Ramirez.
I said, "Oh, this is a bunch of cool things that
enhances and builds on top of NEIO."
I said, "Some other time," if I'm remembering this correctly,
I said, "Some other time,
we'll dive into NEIO proper,
not just async or stuff on top of it.
- Okay, good.
- Yeah, and so here--
- Call me out, fair.
- No, well, you know, I gotta be remembering this right.
So Any.io is a framework that lets you build async things.
And when you first hear about it,
it looks like it's kind of for making network libraries.
Like if you were making a low level network app
and you wanted it to be concurrent and asynchronous,
like, well, you could use any IO, which would be cool.
And it has the ability to be,
how did Alex, the creator of it, put it?
Something like a framework
that goes above the asyncio frameworks.
So it doesn't, like, if you think of Trio or Curio,
those are replacements for asyncio.
Whereas any IO will run on top and integrate with asyncio,
or it will run on top of and integrate with Trio.
So you can kind of add it into whatever you're doing,
which I think is pretty sweet.
But I think it's a little...
it's elevator pitch or whatever here
sells it a bit short.
So I just wanted to talk about some awesome
building blocks that people can use from any I/O
that I think would make them make it really fun.
All right. So one of the 3.11 features
actually is this idea of
task groups.
And they also have this concept of
task groups over... they had it originally
in Trio and then it comes over here about these groups.
And what you can do is you can basically create a task group,
do a bunch of work on them,
and then when it exits that with block, it's all finished.
So if you're not ready to go to 3.11,
but you wanna have task groups, here's one way to get it.
So that's one thing that's kind of cool.
It supports cancellation and timeout, which is important,
especially as a group of related things.
But one of the things I want to touch on here
that's pretty cool is the synchronization primitives.
Remember a few weeks ago, Guido wrote that article
about people at a table and semaphores and stuff.
- Yeah.
- Yeah, so.
- That's one thing.
- Yeah, exactly.
So there's a couple of those types of primitives here
that are really neat.
So they've got events, which allow you to just
run up to a point and wait until some other
Async IO thing comes along and says, "Now go."
And these are similar to the events
that are built into the standard library,
but they're not re-entrant and they have a little bit,
they claim to have a better way of presenting race conditions
and a little bit closer to Trio.
So there's those.
And one of the ones over here that's cool
is capacity limiters.
I think I did talk about this one before.
So you can go over here and just say,
I want to only do, in this case,
the example says create a capacity of one or two,
I only wanna do two things at a time, but yeah.
Then let's see, another one is this working with threads.
It's pretty awesome.
So you can, given some function
that is just a regular function,
you can turn it into async,
but actually have it execute on a background thread
with two thread.
- Wow. - Give it that.
And then you can await it just like other things that mix into your async I/O world.
You can also do it in reverse.
If you're over in a thread and you need to run it on the async event loop, you can also
push it.
You can say from thread and to thread.
The to thread is the...
I believe the one that...
No, the from thread will push it back, back to the async event loop, which is cool.
Let's see.
Yeah.
Also, subprocesses are pretty awesome.
So you can do, like you have this idea of running your code in a thread,
because it's not async, but you want it to be concurrent and mix it in.
You can do the same thing with subprocess, and this is super cool.
So you can say, just run process,
and then it becomes something that's a task
that you can await along with your other things.
>> Nice.
>> Which is sweet. Then you can even go as far as to open the process,
and then asynchronously work with it.
Here's an example of where you open some process,
and then you create a text receive stream from its standard out,
and you just cruise around and read from it while it's running,
awaiting all the time.
>> Wow.
>> That's neat, right?
>> Yeah. It grabs it while it's printing out?
>> Yeah. Basically, what I think it does is it
creates a stream that you can await,
and then it's just listening for process messages to come through.
Then the task partially completes because it's an async for loop.
So you asynchronously wait for an item to come in,
and then it kicks it one time around the loop,
and it waits again, and it's pretty cool how it juggles that.
Then finally here, the file support.
So you can now, instead of saying open,
you just say any IO dot open file, but you can async await it, you know, it's crazy async
with await, which is a lot of crazy stuff happening. But then you can await the reads
and so on. Now there's not actual asynchronous behavior in Python. So how does it manage
this? Basically, it creates a wrapper that uses threads that does the file IO. And then
it just sort of coordinates the communication of the IO back and forth on the threads. And
>> Okay.
>> It comes back from I/O, which should release the GIL because
it's off doing its own thing in the OS.
So it should be pretty good anyway.
>> Yeah.
>> But it makes things like,
it looks like maybe I haven't used this,
but it looks like it makes things like sub-processes and threads,
and normal async and await all look the same.
>> Yeah, exactly. It's like a unifying API
across the different scenarios, which is really cool.
Once you kind of wrap it, you're like,
oh, there's just a bunch of tasks.
I just call a wait on them.
It's good to go.
- Nice.
And then possibly it wouldn't be too much
if you had to change your mind
and have something be a sub-process or a thread.
Instead, it might not wreak havoc on your design too much.
- Yeah, exactly.
You almost don't even have to worry about it.
As long as the parameters can be passed, right?
They've got to be pickable to go across,
to go across the wire there,
but as long as they can be passed to the process
as well as to a thread,
then you just get a task back that talks to you.
It's cool.
- I'll definitely take a look at this.
- Yeah, it definitely looks neat.
And if I did actually fully cover this twice, I apologize.
But it's a pretty cool project.
- We're at like 300 episodes.
We probably covered everything at least once already.
- We may have.
We may have.
Just before I move off of this,
I just want to say also that I interviewed Alex Groneholm
over on Talk Python, when was that?
September, actually released it in October though.
So effectively October or mid, you know, a couple weeks ago
and people can check that out
if they want to dive deep into it and hear the whole story.
But anyway, I feel like, yeah, yeah, thanks.
I do just feel like any I/O sells itself a bit short.
So, you know, it's like a network library
and like, oh, I don't need a network library,
but no, there's like all these little cool
building blocks in there.
- Pretty cool.
Have you used it?
Is it pretty nice to use?
- I've not used it.
I'm still working on getting my interesting projects
more async capable, you know,
before like, for example,
getting some of the web stuff
so the front end can be more async and so on.
Then I can start bringing these fun ideas in
and more Unreal projects.
Back to your topic real quick,
Brandon, an audience says,
"If one was looking at submitting to PyCon,
what's the difference between a tutorial versus a talk?"
Time?
What else, Brian?
- Well, so, right.
So tutorials are what, like three hours or something?
I can't remember how long they are.
And, okay, so they're three hours.
They're also at a different time.
So they're like not on the same day.
- The day before or something?
- Yeah, I think they're like two or three days before.
I can't remember how many days before they run them.
I should have looked this up.
But they're before the conference,
so you have to, you have more hotel tickets
to get for instance.
But since it's three hours, and a talk is what,
like 25 minutes or something? - About 25 minutes, yeah.
- Since there are more work to prepare for a tutorial,
you get paid for 'em.
You get a little stipend.
But also people have to pay to go to the tutorial, so.
But I think there are cool things.
I know a handful of the people we know
do like to do tutorials if they can.
>> Yeah. I think it's also a lot more guiding people
through hands-on coding than it is,
I'm here to present.
>> Yeah. It shouldn't be a three-hour presentation.
It's like we're going to present something and
then have exercises for people to work on.
People bring their laptops in and stuff like that.
>> Yeah.
>> That's good.
>> But then there's also,
one of the things that people forget about is posters.
Posters are also pretty cool.
on the last day of the con, Sunday,
I think it's on Sunday, they have the posters up.
- The posters and the job fair, right?
- Yeah, I think so.
The job fair and the posters at the same time.
And it really literally is a poster.
So if you get one of the poster spots,
you get a section where you get to have your poster up
and you can describe whatever you want on there.
Hopefully it's fairly entertaining to look at and read.
And then you get to hang out.
So let's say you've got a project
you wanted to talk to people about.
It's not really a presentation.
You have your poster up and you just hang out there
and then people come around and ask you questions.
That's pretty neat.
- Absolutely, yeah.
Yeah, if you wanna have a chance to just have
a conversation around something you're working on,
but not go all in on a talk.
I tried to submit a keynote once.
Turns out you can't do it.
- Oh, did they ask people or something?
- They said, "Keynotes are invite only, Michael.
"You can't submit a keynote."
I'm like, "Well, I'm submitting one.
"You can turn it down if you want."
- They did, it's all right.
Okay, now I wanna tell you about one more thing awesome.
One awesome thing before we move on, Brian.
I'll tell you about compiler podcasts from Red Hat.
So super cool to have Red Hat come along
and supporting the show.
And like pretty much everyone listening,
you and I were fans of podcasts.
And so it's awesome to have this compiler from Red Hat
supporting the show.
really good show that they have themselves.
It's very highly edited and polished, so that's excellent.
So if you want to stay on top of tech
without dedicating tons of time to it,
you can listen to Compiler.
They present different perspectives and topics
and insights from the tech industry,
free from jargon and judgment.
They want to discover where technology is headed
beyond the headlines and create a place
for new IT professionals to learn, grow, and thrive.
They help people break through barriers and challenges,
turning code into community
at all the levels of the enterprise.
One recent interesting episode is the one
about the Great Stack Debate.
I love, love, love talking about,
talking to people about their architecture
and the trade-offs and choices that they made
and what the costs and challenges and, you know,
smiles and frowns that result from that.
So you can definitely check out the Great Stack Debate.
That's a fun one.
They answer the question of whether software's like an onion
or like it's lasagna,
or whether it's some other more complicated dish.
So you can check that, that's a lot of fun.
And it's actually the first, yeah, go ahead.
- Looks like the most recent one's about testing too.
I better check that out.
- Yeah, you gotta get in there.
They have a whole series on the compiler,
the compiler series on the software stacks.
And I guess testing is an important part of that.
That's awesome.
Yeah, so learn about compiler at pythonbytes.fm/compiler.
The link is in your podcast player show notes.
I know you could just search for compiler and sign up,
but follow the link and click on your podcast player there
and subscribe that way.
It would really help us let them know
that you heard about them from us.
So thanks to Compiler for keeping this show going strong.
All right, Brian, what's next?
- Well, I was gonna talk about conference talks.
(laughs)
- Awesome.
- So some more.
So I think everybody should try
'cause I actually, I was terrified to do my first talk
and I think it was a good experience.
So Reuven Lerner, Reuven Lerner, friend of the show
and all around awesome guy, wrote an article called
"How to Propose a Winning Conference Talk."
So we're linking to that.
And there's a lot of articles on how to do a talk.
And what I really like about this is it's short.
(laughs)
There's a few things that he focuses on.
The first is like coming up with ideas.
And he, like part of his audience is also other trainers.
So, but I think that more people are trainers
than you realize.
So maybe you're, maybe you actually teach people
like Reuven does, or, you know, you have a training gig
but you could teach mentor or lead or coach in other ways
just by being the resident Python guy or girl
or woman or whatever at your company.
when people come to you and ask questions.
So one of the, some of those things are to come up
with a list of things to talk about.
What questions do people ask you all the time?
Those are great things to break talks about maybe.
What knowledge, what knowledge do you think people
should have that they just don't know to ask about?
Those are also great topics.
And then also, where do you see that people
just don't seem to get it?
And so somehow they're not getting some concept,
they don't quite get it from whatever they've sought out.
Those are also great things.
And if that, if you're still stumped,
he says, well, check out Stack Overflow.
What kind of questions come up there all the time?
Those are good things to maybe give a talk about.
- Hey, I got a cheat code for people listening.
- Okay.
- What awesome thing did you hear about on Python Bytes
that was like new to you?
And there's not a talk at the conference.
I'm serious.
- Yeah, exactly.
rewind a handful of episodes and go through and go,
that sounds interesting.
And, you know, spend a few hours researching it
and come up with a talk, why not?
- Right, right.
It's interesting to me, I wanna learn it
and then I could present it.
You know, you could test drive these things
also at smaller regional conferences,
you could test drive them at meetups,
you could test drive them as like a YouTube video
that you post somewhere or even a blog post, you're right.
Like there's a bunch of, let me take a shot at it
and then build some confidence
and then submit it to PyCon US or Europe or wherever.
- Yeah.
He goes on to talk about using an outline.
And even if you don't go for a talk,
maybe, I don't remember if,
I think PyCon US does ask for this, but some don't.
But even if it's not asked for,
come up with an outline with times.
And that part freaked me out.
I'm like, how do I do that?
but his example is fairly not scary.
It's kind of the bullet points of the sort of stuff
you're gonna talk about
and how long you intend to talk about it.
And this is actually really important.
When I finally embraced this and went,
I gotta think about this.
And I kind of do this hand in hand with the next step.
The next step, he said, is you don't just need an outline,
you need a summary.
And you kind of need a short summary
and a long summary possibly.
And that's, and you should include,
I can't remember where we wrote this down,
but you should include, what is it?
The value that people get,
what benefit they'll get from your talk
and what knowledge they'll get,
what they'll have when they leave your talk
and how will that help them.
And think about those
and that while you're putting through
your outline together too,
as to where you wanna spend your time.
and be paying attention that you do want to have
some wrap up time possibly,
and you might want some introduction time.
So include that and think about those times.
And then you've got just these little tiny one or two minutes
one or two or three or four minute segments
that you've got to come up with words for.
And that's actually a lot easier to deal with
than thinking I got to come up with 25 minutes.
- Right, right.
Yeah, like an example here it says,
- Generate warnings, two minutes.
Could you spend two minutes talking
about generating warnings?
I imagine you could.
(laughing)
- Yeah, and if it's important, throw some time into it.
But one of the things I wanted to highlight on this,
I really like this write-up.
He also, a couple more things.
One is submit the same talk to multiple conferences.
You can do that, and you don't even have,
it doesn't even have to be new.
You could have already submitted, presented it somewhere,
and it might already be on YouTube.
And you're like, really, I can do that?
Yes, really, you can do that.
Some people give talks at multiple conferences
and it's fine.
You don't have to come up with a brand new talk
for every conference.
The other thing is the list of topics.
My mistake the first time I gave a talk was I did this.
I went, what are all the things I'd like to talk about?
And then I crammed them all into one talk.
This is not what you wanna do.
You wanna pick like, you know, one focused thing
so that you can go at a reasonably comfortable pace.
You don't wanna be talking at 100 miles an hour
or people can't keep up with you.
There are some people, don't get me wrong,
there's some people that can talk really fast
and pack a lot of information
and they're really good about it
and it's still entertaining.
But I think the average person would be better
at trying to go at a little slower pace.
- Yep, yeah, I totally agree about that.
And you know, that could be your,
Like you could come up with that list
of all the things you want to talk about,
and then that could be the source for two or three talks.
- Yeah, yep.
- God, this is kind of like,
this all stuff seems to be about fixtures.
So let's do like five things that are awesome
about fixtures you didn't know.
And here's like why you should care
about structuring your, I don't know, whatever.
- And if they get rejected,
but from every conference that you submitted to,
you're still won because you did all that work.
just turn it into a blog post or a YouTube video or something.
>> Yeah, absolutely. A bunch of good feedback from the audience.
John out there says,
"A great place to give a talk is at the user group."
Kind of matched exactly the same time I said that,
so I definitely agree in there.
Brandon says, "Give it a lunch and learn at your company."
>> Great idea.
>> Yeah, that's a really good idea.
And casual viewer number three says,
My team has a show and tell like meeting on Fridays
to show off stuff people can talk about
that'd be impactful, also a good place.
Yeah, a lot of good ideas.
If the venue doesn't exist,
you may well be able to create it.
- Yeah, and you might get promoted because of it
'cause you're like, oh, people will know
that you're the expert in the company
that they didn't know before.
It's good to know. - That's right, that's right.
All right, I wanna come back to something
that I know we talked about before, but a feature of it.
So we talked about Sanic when it came out,
there was Sanic and Gepronto and a couple other things.
This I believe predates FastAPI even.
And it was one of the very first high performance
async frameworks for Python.
Very cool.
I hadn't really been tracking it that much lately,
but if you drop over by the GitHub,
github.com/sanic-org, go to Sanic,
16,000 stars, 1,500 porks, it's going really strong.
I totally did not, I've not been tracking it well enough.
So this is really fantastic.
So cool way to build asynchronous web apps in Python.
It claims to be unopinionated and flexible.
It is the plastic that you build your APIs
and your web apps out of as you like,
rather than being very structured
in the way you put stuff together.
So if you're looking forward to that, it's good.
it's, like I said, super fast.
That was its original selling point
and apparently used by millions of people,
which is pretty awesome.
So what I wanna point out here is not Sanic exactly,
but rather a new feature that was shared with us by Felix.
And Felix pointed out that Adam, one of the maintainers,
just added this concept of a worker manager
into the new version of Sanic.
So if you want to run background work,
like I want to send an email or I want to send,
I do other like lots of processing
or computational work in the background,
it's going to block up not just a single request,
but it's going to block up potentially
the whole web server, right?
You get a bunch of things that are querying tons of data
or doing a bunch of computation,
then all of a sudden, or even calling other APIs,
potentially that could clog up the server,
especially if it can't be done asynchronously.
So they added this concept of kind of like
a lightweight Celery type of thing
where you can push the work off to it
and have it run in the background and manage that.
Except for it's just an API inside of Sanic.
And it starts a sub process that hangs around
and does that background work for you.
So it's like, you don't have to manage another server,
you don't have to set up Celery or Redis
and then some worker mechanism
to process the messages coming out of there,
you just kick the work over to this worker manager
and off it goes.
- Nice.
- Yeah. - That's pretty cool.
- Pretty cool, huh?
- Yeah.
- Yeah, and the way that it works is,
basically you can hook into some lifetime events,
like you can use a decorator app dot before server start.
And you can go make sure that there's a queue
that can be used for the communication across that.
and then you can handle on request.
And then when a request comes in,
you can like push work over to it.
Yeah, anyway, you can even get it to do like some cool
little printout of like the status
of what the workers are up to and so on.
So anyway, pretty neat.
If you need to run asynchronous work
and you're looking at a web framework,
you know, maybe check out Sanic.
It's got this cool feature
and it's got a lot of nice async
and await features as well.
- Cool.
>> All right. That's it for our main items, isn't it?
>> I guess it is, yeah.
>> Before we move off this real quick,
casual viewer says FastAPI is
something similar called background task.
>> Okay. Good to know.
>> You can also build those on
your own using multiprocessing or something.
>> Or any I/O.
>> Or any I/O for sure.
One of the real challenges of all of those like
roll your own things are usually what happens is
you farm out your web server.
So for example, on TalkByThon training,
we have eight worker processes
that are cruising around waiting.
And like, as far as they're concerned,
they are the website, right?
And if all those things start kicking off background work
and they start starting their own processes,
it'll be like, why are there 17 worker processes
cruising around?
I don't know what's going on.
So yeah, it's kind of cool to have something
that's a little more structured like that.
All right, extras.
You said you got some extras, tell us about them.
- Well, stuck on the presentation thing,
but I ran across this article called
Create Presentations from Jupyter Notebooks.
And I just wanted to link to it.
If you're thinking about doing a presentation
and you wanna possibly just use your Jupyter Notebook,
apparently it's built in.
I didn't know that it was just built in.
So this just walks through the built-in features of how to,
So you've got a Jupyter notebook, you walk,
but you can even do some markdown.
You can do markdown Jupyter anyway,
but there's ways to have both code and markdown together
with this, with IPython display markdown, which is cool.
And then it goes through a couple more examples of things,
but then there's this dropdown.
You can just say view cell toolbar slideshow,
and then you select slide for each of your little cells
and they become slides in your presentation.
And then you can use the built-in NB convert
to convert it to a presentation.
So just an HTML presentation right there.
So that's pretty neat.
- You can say it's a slide,
you can say it's a sub slide, a fragment,
you could skip and you could even make it notes
just for like a presentation view.
That's pretty flexible for per cell in Jupyter.
That's awesome.
- And then there's ways to either show it by default,
it shows the code,
but you can have it hide the code apparently.
And then if you wanna be able to,
instead of doing the command line thing,
if you wanna toggle back and forth
while you're developing it,
they're recommending using the rise extension.
And I tried that, I'm like, is it really this easy?
And so I tried it out and sure enough,
I just went through some of the examples
and it's really pretty cool.
And with Rise, we've got like these examples
and then you can just, with Rise,
you can just select this little icon here.
It looks like a graph
and it just enters into slideshow mode.
- Nice.
- Within it, so.
- What happens if you hit space in that mode?
Does it like automatically take you from one to one?
Okay, cool.
- Yeah.
- Very nice.
you can do the arrows back and forth and stuff.
So you kind of,
it doesn't look as good as the actual presentation
at the output,
but especially if you're trying to like kind of toggle back
and forth to see,
isn't it like, is my stuff too big?
Like right now I would totally alter this
because it looks too, it doesn't look good right now.
But that's kind of what you do with slideshows
is you sort of work with them until they look good.
But anyway, so this is something I wanted to share.
It was just this,
if you want to try using Jupyter for your presentation,
here's a link, kind of maybe take a look at this article.
The other thing I wanted to point out as an extra is,
what Python, pytest as 7.2, pytest 7.2 released.
I don't normally like, I mean, I love, I'm personally,
I'm like ready to try every new release that comes out.
But why I'm bringing this up is there's a couple of things
that bit us at work and I wanna, if they might bite you,
the Pi library is now separated from Pytest.
So you don't get the Pi library by default
when you're installing Pytest.
So if you are using the Pi library,
you just have to make that one of your own requirements.
- You were cheating and not stating it as a requirement
because it'll always be there, we know.
- I don't think we were using it at all,
but I think we may have declared like PyPath
or something like that.
- Yeah, yeah.
- A couple more things that I think is neat.
A few releases ago, I added the test paths
so that you can add import path
for where your source code is.
And for this release,
they added a shell style wild card support.
So that's pretty cool.
And there's a whole bunch of cool features.
So yeah, check out pytest if you're up for it.
Oh, one of the things I'm really glad,
they deprecated nos.
I can't remember where it's listed here,
but they're not using, so set up this,
just the keywords set up and tear down.
You could define functions.
You were able to define functions set up and tear down,
and those were run automatically,
but those were run automatically
because they were part of the nose support.
So even if you don't know what nose is,
if you're using those, those are deprecated.
So stop using those.
There's other ways to do set up and tear down with pytest.
And so check that out if you're using that.
And the first edition of the pytest book,
I actually talked about set up and tear down.
And luckily in the second edition, I took those out.
So yeah.
- Very good, you saw that coming.
- Awesome.
- Cool, a bit of follow up on your Jupyter item here.
Henry Schreiner says, "You can also use this in labs
"in JupyterLab, not the old notebook.
"Though if you want to use RISE,
"live editable presentations,
"that still requires the old notebook."
Same metadata.
- Okay, so you can use JupyterLab for presentations too.
Awesome.
- Yeah, yeah, very cool.
And then also Brandon points out that background task
from when we credited FastAPI may actually come from Starlet.
For those of you who don't know,
FastAPI as a layer on top of Starlet.
So a lot of times what people perceive as a FastAPI feature
is actually a Starlette feature.
And it also, Henry says, it also now the notebooks
now warn you if you return from a test on pytest, sorry.
Now also warned you for a return from a pytest function,
this would be an error in pytest eight.
Okay, good to know.
- Well, yeah, apparently some people were like returning
true or false from their test functions.
and wanting that to indicate whether a test passed or failed,
don't do that.
>> Don't you just parse the print statements?
>> No.
>> You don't want an error?
>> No, it's an exception.
If an exception happens, that's a failure.
>> Of course. All right. I got a few extras
and we'll bust out some jokes. These are quick.
Rich, the colorizing, formatting,
awesome Tui Foundation is great.
Now available on PyScript.
So rich, yeah, you just do rich things
and just print this stuff all out.
And guess what?
It now comes out as like colorized output and HTML, I guess.
I'm not sure where the destination is gonna land,
but it says rebel.
So I'm guessing maybe print out in the rebel there.
Anyway, there's a bunch of notes
on how to use rich in PyScript.
So if you like PyScript and you're tracking that project
and you like rich, put them together.
Also, we talked about YouTube videos
and you could sit and make a talk,
you could just make it a video.
So I did a Python 3.11 in 100 seconds video
that I released yesterday, day before,
I think it was yesterday actually.
And anyway, people can check that out
if they've got 100 seconds to spare
and they wanna know what's cool about Python 3.11
and why it's neat.
That's fun, links in the show notes there.
All right, ready for some jokes?
- Yes.
- Okay.
So here's one, it's titled "Laughter in Linux,"
but it's about Windows.
So you might have to go back a ways
for people to get this joke,
but let's see, I know you spent some time in Windows, Brian,
let me see what you think about this.
So here's like a sort of a karate master type of scenario.
And like the sensei says,
"It's time for you to look inward
and start asking yourself the big questions.
What happened to the A and B drive?
Because it's all you see, right?
>> Yes, I'm going to see.
>> They used to make that noise.
Pretty much if it's not a C drive,
it makes noise is my understanding from my history.
Some of them make that a disky noise,
other like a CD seeking noise,
but there's always a noise associated with a non-C drive.
I know that's not always true, but it's fun.
All right, other one.
This one is not about OSs and disks, but rather databases and it's dating advice.
So here's a woman talking to a clearly nerdy programmer type.
It says, what do you need for a good relationship?
The guy looks at her obviously primary keys.
Primary keys.
Yeah.
So bad.
Anyway, that's what I got.
- He's a dude from the IT crowd.
- Okay, yeah, yeah.
I need to watch more TV to fully catch the memes, don't I?
- Yeah, so.
- Yeah, cool.
All right, well, always fun to have you here
and do the show.
Thanks. - Definitely.
Thanks, and thanks everybody for showing up an hour early.
I really appreciate it.
- Yeah, absolutely.
Try to be the, we'll try to stick to that time for a while
and I guess we'll let you know if we don't.
All right, see y'all later, thanks.
[BLANK_AUDIO]